---
layout: archive
title: " "
permalink: /cv_01
---
{% include base_path %}

# Claire Valva
### clairev (at) nyu.edu // claire.valva (at) gmail.com // clairevalva.github.io


### Education

**2020-present** PhD Mathematics and Atmosphere Ocean Science, *Center for Atmosphere Ocean Science, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University,* 
Supported by National Science Foundation's Graduate Research Fellowship and NYU’s MacCracken fellowship.

 
 **2016 - 2020** BS Geophysical Sciences, Mathematics, *the University of Chicago* with special honors

### Research

* **College Research Fellow** at the University of Chicago: 
    *Advisor: Noboru Nakamura, professor of geophysical sciences*, **2018-2020**
    &nbsp;
    
     **Distributions of Midlatitude Local Finite-Amplitude Wave Activity:** Explored the controls on probability distributions of local wave activity through simple models and nonlinear PDEs. Study relation between extreme local wave activity values and weather including geopotential height and temperature. 
    
    **Extreme events as wave construction:** Explored weather extremes through the decomposition of geopotential height into stationary and transient components, applying spectral analysis to the latter. Examined robustness of the reconstructed distribution from these spectra and its sensitivity to various wave components.  
    
* **Mathematics REU** at the University of Chicago
    **Summer 2019**
    
    **Riemannian Geometry and Ergodic Flow on Surfaces of Negative Curvature:** Studied the properties of geodesic flow on spaces with negative curvature which include ergodicity and mixing. Also obtained a background in Riemannian geometry, covariant derivatives, and curvature.

* **Jeff Metcalf Summer Undergraduate Research Scholar** at the Ecosystems Center, Marine Biological Laboratory
    *Advisor: Ivan Valiela, distinguished scientist*, **Summer 2017, 2018**
    &nbsp;
    
    **Regime shifts of nitrogen loads and estuarine response:** Analyzed changed trajectories of nitrogen loads in cape cod estuaries and identified drivers of change over 20 years of data. Explored estuarine water quality and biological response to this regime shift as well as varying levels of nitrogen loading. Work included sampling in several Cape Cod estuaries. 


### Skills
Fluent in Python, Javascript, R, and LaTEX with experience in HTML, Jekyll, Markdown, C++, and Fortran. 

### Presentations
* **Valva, Claire**, Noboru Nakamura, 2019; What Controls the Local Wave Activity Distribution in the Midlatitudes?; American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting

* **Valva, Claire** 2019; Geodesic Flow and Ergodicity on Surfaces of Negative Sectional Curvature; The University of Chicago NSF REU on Mathematics

* **Valva, Claire**, Clare SY Huang, Noboru Nakamura, 2018; Extreme Events as Atmospheric Rogue Waves; American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting

* **Valva, Claire**, Ivan Valiela, Javier Lloret, 2018; Nitrogen load regime change: changes in atmospheric deposition drives trajectory of nitrogen loads in Buzzards Bay estuaries; Marine Biological Laboratory Undergraduate Research Symposium 

* **Valva, Claire**, Ivan Valiela, Javier Lloret, Daniella Hanacek, Sharanya Sarathy, Richard McHorney, 2017; Responses of inorganic nitrogen concentrations and producers in Cape Cod estuarine systems subject to differing rates of nitrogen loading; University of Chicago Undergraduate Research Symposium

* **Valva, Claire**, Ivan Valiela, Javier Lloret, Daniella Hanacek, Sharanya Sarathy, Richard McHorney, 2017; Responses of inorganic nitrogen concentrations and producers in Cape Cod estuarine systems subject to differing rates of nitrogen loading; Marine Biological Laboratory Undergraduate Research Symposium

### Awards
* National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowship
* Honors in Mathematics, Honors in Geophysical Sciences 2020: Honors awarded for academic achievement and coursework (mathematics), Honors awarded for academic achievement and completion of senior thesis (geophysical sciences)
* University of Chicago Dean’s Fund Recipient: 2018; Funding awarded to college students for research-related travel. 
* Jeff Metcalf Summer Undergraduate Research Fellow: 2017, 2018; Research funding for undergraduate research which takes place at the Marine Biological Laboratory. 

### Teaching and Outreach Experience
* *Expert in Science Buddies Ask an Expert forums*, **Fall 2018 to present**; Answers questions from students and teachers related to middle and high school student physical science projects. 
* *Pen Pal in Letters to a Pre-Scientist Program*, **Fall 2019 to present**; Acts as a pen-pal to middle school students to discuss scientific careers and exploration.
* *Resident assistant at the Marine Biological Laboratory*, **Summer 2018**; Advised and supervised undergraduate research fellows working in research labs at the Marine Biological Laboratory and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute.  
* *Course assistant (VCA) for undergraduate calculus sequence*, **Fall 2017**; Held office hours and graded homework for the 15000s calculus sequence at the University of Chicago. 